We'll come back to court record world.
This video will show you how to implement the very damning coefficient in your model.
I will lose it in the time domain molded by examining the forces the number exerted.
We have two forces the force of number exerts you in compression of stroke and the force during what
we call rebound stroke.
And number in motion we exert these two forces because of a very simple reason.
The number velocity changes over time.
One important thing to keep in mind in real lives that mean coefficient is not constant the compression
then being coefficients are different Zen.
The rebound then being coefficients.
And I'm saying coefficients not coefficient because of them being coefficient is changing with the speed
also.
So when you are building a system that includes a number you must have what we call dumper graph which
shows the relation between numbers speed and forces exerted in post compression and rebounds talk for
the quarter.
Kamal does I have this table which relates the speed and the damage coefficient of the number I have
used in post compression and rebounds strokes.
So how I'm going to implement these data into my mold and I need to create a model and replace it with
a number coefficient C once this model takes a number of speed as an input and produces a number coefficient
as an output.
How I will use it to look up tables for compression and rebound data.
I will take a velocity signal if it's positive.
I will use the compression table if it's negative.
I will use the rebound table.
Please note that my sign convention is plus for compression and minus 40 rebound.
All of these necessary calculations will be done on a separate subsystem which I will use it in my main
quarter car model system.
So let's see that.
As you can see these are the different values for the System variables I have added three lines at the
end.
I have added some velocity which is from twenty five onset to one hundred and fifty was a step off twenty
five and I have added to information about the damping coefficient in pulse compression and rebounds
strokes which are in these metrics.
So now I have v c compression and c rebound.
This is a quarter car model in the time domain.
I need to replace the stumbling coefficient with a system that simulates as a variation of the coefficients
of temping so I will go two blocks.
I will search for subsystem and click enter right click Add to Untitled.
This is my new subsystem which will replace the damaged coefficient.
The subsystem takes input 1 and produces output 1 input 1 is the speed output one is a dumbbell coefficient
I will double click the subsystem as you can see I have input 1 output 1 I will look at some later I
will go 2 blocks lookup tables I will add one day lookup table signal rooting I will select switch meth
operations APs and for demonstration I will add this play block
and from commonly used blocks I will add constant.
Now let's build a system I will drag them here.
This is a first look up table.
This lookup table will relate is the velocity with the damping coefficients in compression so peak points
are velocity and this is the then mean coefficient in compression C on the score com.
OK
so as you can see I have added the different values for the compression that being coefficient was the
speed
I can rename this
compression
I will add another lookup table
this lookup table will take V as breakpoints and see rebound now.
Okay
as you can see this or is a different values for them being coefficients with the speed okay.
This is repellant
now.
This constant is for demonstration so for example if I have a speed of 25 the speed sign is plus I will
feed this speed for the first time to absolute value block in order to take as a positive sign always
of the speed
if the speed is a minus which is rebound I will remove this sign to enter enters a table and takes a
value in the appropriate way because we have a relation between the speed and the ending coefficients
all in positive signs.
So I will take another signal from here to the absolute.
I will feed this signal to the first look up table which is compression and this one to the second lookup
table which is rebound
if I wired this display plug in post compression and rebound
and try to run this model.
As you can see in the first display which is the damping coefficient in compression I have twelve and
the number coefficient in the rebound.
I have for 2 different values for the them Uncle efficient which one is the correct one.
This one is the correct one because the sign of the speed is plus twenty five.
If for example the speed is minus 20 or minus twenty five okay what's will happen is I will take minus
twenty five I will things absolute value of it.
It's a twenty five I will enter this table and the answer will be twelve again.
I will take minus twenty five absolute value which is twenty five I will enter city bound table and
the answer is for which value is then Min coefficient is correct this time for is correct because the
sign of the speed is in minus so this one is correct.
So I've used a switch block in order to compare the speed with zero.
If this be this bigger Zen zero I will think that I'm being coefficient from compression if this be
this less than zero I will examine coefficient from rebound so I will whereas this here another signal
here to make the comparison if it's through let's remove this display if it's through
the upper signal will be executed if it falls the lower signal will be executed.
Now I can add display on other display so sinks display
now minus twenty five is a negative sign so minus twenty five is less than zero so I will take the signal
of this damning coefficient from the rebound table.
So let's run this model.
The answer is for now I will remove this in this I will take this input and put one to the subsystem
an hour between to the subsystem.
Now I have built this model.
This model takes a speed as an input and produces.
So that mean coefficient as an output it compares between two different tables or two different values
of the then being coefficients.
The first table is a dumping coefficient in compression and the second table is a dumping coefficient
and rebound depending on the sign of the velocity.
We take the value of the then being coefficient I can go back to my main model.
This is the subsystem I have used let's flip this block.
Now what is input to this subsystem.
Again if we look at this picture over December we will find that we have two different points we have
this point that is connected to the Chelsea the speed or the velocity of this point is V C and we have
this point that is connected to suspension system the speed or the velocity of this point is v is the
force of this number is then Min coefficients time the difference between these two speed.
So the input to the model I have created to simulate the varying damping coefficients is v c minus V
is if we see a minus V is is in plus I will have compression so I will take the data from the lookup
table of the compression that main coefficient if we see a minus V as is a minus I will take Zare bound
dumping coefficient if you want an example for demonstration imagines that we is twenty five in this
direction which is the compression direction so it's plus and V S is in the same direction but this
time fifty deltas B equals to VCU minus V is so twenty five minus fifty equals to minus twenty five.
So is this number is in rebound the stroke you can emissions at this point C is moving with twenty five
mm per second but the S is moving was fifty millimeter per second so the S is leading V.S. so that number
will be rebound not compressed and the forces then ember exerts is the relative velocity between these
two points time zone then being coefficient if you want another example imagine that the C is also twenty
five in this direction but this is fifty in another direction.
So Delta V equals to twenty five minus minus fifty which is twenty five plus fifty equals to seventy
five.
So this number will be compressed relative his speed is seventy five or the speed of this chassis relative
to the suspension mount and the force is a number exerts is seventy five millimeter per second times
a damning coefficient this time the in coefficient from the compression table.
Now back to our model what I need to make is to feed the relative speed of the chassis minus the suspension
system into this subsystem so I will call business
this is the speed of the suspension system and this is the speed of the chassis system so this is in
plus
and this is in minus
so output is input 1 2 as a subsystem and subsystem will produces at them being coefficient.
Now is this them being coefficient will be multiplied by the output of the signal.
I need to delete C1 which is our constant dumping coefficient and I will remove the signal and also
this one ends the output of this subsystem is a new damping coefficient.
I will add from MSA operation product
I'll drag it here as a product Block takes to signal and multiply them together.
So I will flip this block.
This is the first signal.
This is the second one
and the output is fitted to this point and another signal is speed it to this point.
If you are confused you can check modelling and simulation of course our car model in time to mean now.
Our model is ready to run and simulate run double click here to see the response of the suspension system.
We have some oscillations here on some damped and this is the response of the chassis.
If you want to see the variation of the damage coefficient was time I will copy the scope
and I will take the signal
now run.
As you can see that the main coefficient is not constant over time it's changing based on whether it's
compression or rebound and based on the speed and if you want also to see how the speed changes will
take signal from here fitted to the scoop and run and this is the speed it goes from positive signs
to negative signs and so on.
Thank you guys for watching and see you in the next three to.